doc: initial cut at constituencies needs (#31)
nodejs/next-10: CONSTITUENCY-NEEDS.md

|Ability to affect the direction of the project|X|X|X|X|X|X|
|Consumable APIs and docs|X| |X|X| |X|
|Predictable and Stable Releases|X|X|X|X|X||
|Innovation at a consumable pace|X||X|X|X|X|
|Easy Installation|X||||||
|Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration|X|X|X|X|X| |
|Broad Deployment platform support|X|X|||X||
|Broad Desktop platform support|X||X|X||X|
|Consistent and intuitive Error handling|X|X|X|X|||
|Runtime Diagnostic Tooling|X|X|||||
|Development time Diagnostic Tooling|||X|X|||
|Relevant APIs in core|||X|X|||
|Module/dependency info and management|X|X|X|X||
|Ways to fund their work||||X||X|
|Ability to assess impact of changes they make||||X||X|
|Good security and CVE practices in the project|X|X|X|X|X||
|Better CVE management in the ecosystem|X|X|X|X|X||
|Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project||||||X|
|Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project||||||X|
|Better ways to build consensus in the project||||||X|
|Easy contribution workflow|||||X|X|

## Good understanding of the direction of the project

* An understanding of the work happening in the Node.js project (what features do I have

>   to look forward to, what's the project direction). Roadmap?, Changes between 

Author: ```suggestion
to look forward to, what's the project direction). Changes between
```

>   releases? More info on how new changes affect end users/developers

Author: ```suggestion
  releases. More info on how new changes affect end users/developers
```

* Confidence in the health of the project upkeep and leadership
* Confidence that the project is well run and will continue being maintained/successful

## Ability to affect the direction of the project

> * A seat at the table when big decisions are being made

Author: ```suggestion
* The ability to discover when important decisions are being
  made by the project.
* A seat at the table when important decisions are being made. 
```

# Needs of the Node.js Constituencies

| Need |Users|Ops|AppDev|LibDev|Orgs|NodeMaint|
|------|-----|---|------|------|----|---------|
|Good understanding of the direction of the project|X|X|X|X|X|X|
|Ability to affect the direction of the project|X|X|X|X|X|X|
|Consumable APIs and docs|X| |X|X| |X|
|Predictable and Stable Releases|X|X|X|X|X||

> |Inovation at a consumable pace|X||X|X|X|X|

Reviewer: nit:typo
```suggestion
|Innovation at a consumable pace|X||X|X|X|X|
```

|Easy Installation|X||||||
|Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration|X|X|X|X|X| |
|Broad Deployment platform support|X|X|||X||
|Broad Desktop platform support|X||X|X||X|
|Consistent and intuitive Error handling|X|X|X|X|||
|Runtime Diagnostic Tooling|X|X|||||
|Development time Diagnostic Tooling|||X|X|||
|Relevant APIs in core|||X|X|||
|Module/dependency info and management|X|X|X|X||
|Ways to fund their work||||X||X|

> |Ability to asses impact of changes they make||||X||X|

Reviewer: nit: typo
```suggestion
|Ability to assess impact of changes they make||||X||X|
```

|Good security and CVE practices in the project|X|X|X|X|X||
|Better CVE management in the ecosystem|X|X|X|X|X||
|Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project||||||X|
|Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project||||||X|
|Better ways to build consensus in the project||||||X|
|Easy contribution workflow|||||X|X|

## Good understanding of the direction of the project

* An understanding of the work happening in the Node.js project (what features do I have
  to look forward to, what's the project direction). Roadmap?, Changes between 
  releases? More info on how new changes affect end users/developers
* Confidence in the health of the project upkeep and leadership
* Confidence that the project is well run and will continue being maintained/successful

## Ability to affect the direction of the project

* A seat at the table when big decisions are being made
* Ability to advocate for work (bug fixes and features) that unblocks customers
* A level playing field so that they can contribute on an equal basis with other

>   people and or organizations

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
  people and/or organizations
```

## Consumable APIs and Docs

* APIs and Docs which are simple to understand and use

## Predictable and Stable Releases

> * Predictable releases schedule to be able to plan upgrades

Reviewer: release schedule?
```suggestion
* Predictable release schedule to be able to plan upgrades
```

* Compatibility and Stability when possible across releases to minimize upgrade work
* Stability across runtime versions

## Inovation as a consumable pace

* Right balance between "move fast" and "stability"
* Stability while still trying out new things

## Easy Installation

* Ability to easily install/consume Node.js in different environments
* raw OS, containers, cloud platforms etc.

## Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration

> * A good path to report issues to the project,and the ability to collaborate/contribute to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A good path to report issues to the project, and the ability to collaborate/contribute to
```

  the project to get them addressed

> * A clear understanding of how how to interact with the Node.js project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A clear understanding of how to interact with the Node.js project.
```

* Error handling (traceability through tooling,long stack traces, system state reporting,etc)

## Runtime Diagnostic Tooling
* Diagnostics Tools
* More diagnostic signals
* Monitoring tools
* Observability

## Development time Diagnostic Tooling
* Debuggability
* Instrumentability

## Relevant APIs in core
* WebSockets in core (still waiting...)
* APIs in key areas across the different types of applications, CLI, web, cloud native etc.
* APIs they can use directly from core without intermediary deps

## Module/depenency info and management

More information, and easier ways to gather information about modules they depend on.

## Ways to fund their work
* Ways to fund their work

## Ability to asses impact of changes they make
* Tools to evaluate impact of updates they make on other packages/applications

## Reasonable resource usage/performance

* Resonable resource usage (cpu, memory etc.)
* Performance

## Good security and CVE practices in the project

* Good management, reporting and updates for security issues
* Good process/handling of CVE's by the project

## Better CVE management in the ecosystem

* Better ways to deal with reported vulnerabilties

> * Better systems of keeping track of dependencies (updates, vulnerabilities, etc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Better systems of keeping track of dependencies (updates, vulnerabilities, etc)
```

## Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project

* Good user experience with CI
* Easier ways for collaborators to add/modify CI jobs
* Make it easier for collaborators to understand failures in the CI
* Reasonable build time 

## Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project

* More internals guides
* Supportive collaborators

## Better ways to build consensus in the project

* Better ways to build consensus for what new features/APIs should be added to Node.js

> * Easier ways to resolve dis-agreements 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Easier ways to resolve disagreements 
```

|Module/dependency info and management|X|X|X|X||
|Ways to fund their work||||X||X|
|Ability to assess impact of changes they make||||X||X|
|Good security and CVE practices in the project|X|X|X|X|X||
|Better CVE management in the ecosystem|X|X|X|X|X||
|Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project||||||X|
|Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project||||||X|
|Better ways to build consensus in the project||||||X|
|Easy contribution workflow|||||X|X|

## Good understanding of the direction of the project

* An understanding of the work happening in the Node.js project (what features do I have
to look forward to, what's the project direction). Changes between
  releases. More info on how new changes affect end users/developers
* Confidence in the health of the project upkeep and leadership
* Confidence that the project is well run and will continue being maintained/successful

## Ability to affect the direction of the project

* The ability to discover when important decisions are being
  made by the project.
* A seat at the table when important decisions are being made. 
* Ability to advocate for work (bug fixes and features) that unblocks customers

> * A level playing field so that they can contribute on an equal basis with other

Author: ```suggestion
* A level playing field so that they have equal opportunity to contribute as other
```

  people and/or organizations

## Consumable APIs and Docs

> * APIs and Docs which are simple to understand and use

Author: ```suggestion
* APIs and Docs which are up to date and simple to understand and use
* Example code for one or more use cases of the APIs
```

|Better ways to build consensus in the project||||||X|
|Easy contribution workflow|||||X|X|

## Good understanding of the direction of the project

* An understanding of the work happening in the Node.js project (what features do I have
to look forward to, what's the project direction). Changes between
  releases. More info on how new changes affect end users/developers
* Confidence in the health of the project upkeep and leadership
* Confidence that the project is well run and will continue being maintained/successful

## Ability to affect the direction of the project

* The ability to discover when important decisions are being
  made by the project.
* A seat at the table when important decisions are being made. 
* Ability to advocate for work (bug fixes and features) that unblocks customers
* A level playing field so that they have equal opportunity to contribute as other
  people and/or organizations

## Consumable APIs and Docs

* APIs and Docs which are up to date and simple to understand and use
* Example code for one or more use cases of the APIs

## Predictable and Stable Releases

* Predictable release schedule to be able to plan upgrades

> * Compatibility and Stability when possible across releases to minimize upgrade work

Author: ```suggestion
* Compatibility and stability when possible across releases to minimize upgrade work
```

* Stability across runtime versions

> ## Inovation as a consumable pace

Author: ```suggestion
## Innovation at a consumable pace
```

> * Right balance between "move fast" and "stability"

Author: ```suggestion
* Right balance between "move fast" and stability
```

> * Stability while still trying out new things

Author: ```suggestion
* Stability while still trying out new things
* Advance notice and time to prepare for deprecations
```

## Easy Installation

* Ability to easily install/consume Node.js in different environments
* raw OS, containers, cloud platforms etc.

## Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration

* A good path to report issues to the project, and the ability to collaborate/contribute to
  the project to get them addressed
* A clear understanding of how to interact with the Node.js project.

## Broad Deployment platform support

* Broad platform support for deployment OS and processor
  architectures

## Broad Desktop platform support

* Platform support that covers key desktop OS(windows, linux and OSX)

## Consistent and intuitive Error handling

* Error handling (traceability through tooling,long stack traces, system state reporting,etc)

## Runtime Diagnostic Tooling
* Diagnostics Tools
* More diagnostic signals
* Monitoring tools
* Observability

## Development time Diagnostic Tooling
* Debuggability
* Instrumentability

## Relevant APIs in core
* WebSockets in core (still waiting...)
* APIs in key areas across the different types of applications, CLI, web, cloud native etc.
* APIs they can use directly from core without intermediary deps

> ## Module/depenency info and management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Module/dependency info and management
```

* Confidence in the health of the project upkeep and leadership
* Confidence that the project is well run and will continue being maintained/successful

## Ability to affect the direction of the project

* The ability to discover when important decisions are being
  made by the project.
* A seat at the table when important decisions are being made. 
* Ability to advocate for work (bug fixes and features) that unblocks customers
* A level playing field so that they have equal opportunity to contribute as other
  people and/or organizations

## Consumable APIs and Docs

* APIs and Docs which are up to date and simple to understand and use
* Example code for one or more use cases of the APIs

## Predictable and Stable Releases

* Predictable release schedule to be able to plan upgrades
* Compatibility and stability when possible across releases to minimize upgrade work
* Stability across runtime versions

## Innovation at a consumable pace

* Right balance between "move fast" and stability
* Stability while still trying out new things
* Advance notice and time to prepare for deprecations

## Easy Installation

* Ability to easily install/consume Node.js in different environments

> * raw OS, containers, cloud platforms etc.

Author: ```suggestion
  * raw OS, containers, cloud platforms etc.
```

## Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration

* A good path to report issues to the project, and the ability to collaborate/contribute to
  the project to get them addressed
* A clear understanding of how to interact with the Node.js project.

> ## Broad Deployment platform support

Author: ```suggestion
## Broad deployment platform support
```

* Broad platform support for deployment OS and processor
  architectures

> ## Broad Desktop platform support

Author: ```suggestion
## Broad desktop platform support
```

> * Platform support that covers key desktop OS(windows, linux and OSX)

Author: ```suggestion
* Platform support that covers key desktop OS (Windows, Linux and macOS)
```

## Consistent and intuitive Error handling

> * Error handling (traceability through tooling,long stack traces, system state reporting,etc)

Author: ```suggestion
* Error handling:
  * Traceability through tooling
  * Full async stack traces
  * System state reporting
  * etc.
```

|Consumable APIs and docs|X| |X|X| |X|
|Predictable and Stable Releases|X|X|X|X|X||
|Innovation at a consumable pace|X||X|X|X|X|
|Easy Installation|X||||||
|Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration|X|X|X|X|X| |
|Broad Deployment platform support|X|X|||X||
|Broad Desktop platform support|X||X|X||X|
|Consistent and intuitive Error handling|X|X|X|X|||
|Runtime Diagnostic Tooling|X|X|||||
|Development time Diagnostic Tooling|||X|X|||
|Relevant APIs in core|||X|X|||
|Module/dependency info and management|X|X|X|X||
|Ways to fund their work||||X||X|
|Ability to assess impact of changes they make||||X||X|
|Good security and CVE practices in the project|X|X|X|X|X||
|Better CVE management in the ecosystem|X|X|X|X|X||
|Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project||||||X|
|Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project||||||X|
|Better ways to build consensus in the project||||||X|
|Easy contribution workflow|||||X|X|

## Good understanding of the direction of the project

* An understanding of the work happening in the Node.js project (what features do I have
to look forward to, what's the project direction). Changes between

>   releases. More info on how new changes affect end users/developers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  releases. Info on how new changes affect end users/developers
```

* Confidence in the health of the project upkeep and leadership
* Confidence that the project is well run and will continue being maintained/successful

## Ability to affect the direction of the project

* The ability to discover when important decisions are being
  made by the project.
* A seat at the table when important decisions are being made. 
* Ability to advocate for work (bug fixes and features) that unblocks customers
* A level playing field so that they have equal opportunity to contribute as other
  people and/or organizations

## Consumable APIs and Docs

* APIs and Docs which are up to date and simple to understand and use
* Example code for one or more use cases of the APIs

## Predictable and Stable Releases

* Predictable release schedule to be able to plan upgrades
* Compatibility and stability when possible across releases to minimize upgrade work
* Stability across runtime versions

## Innovation at a consumable pace

* Right balance between "move fast" and stability
* Stability while still trying out new things
* Advance notice and time to prepare for deprecations

## Easy Installation

* Ability to easily install/consume Node.js in different environments

>   * raw OS, containers, cloud platforms etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * raw OS, containers, cloud platforms, etc.
```

## Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration

* A good path to report issues to the project, and the ability to collaborate/contribute to
  the project to get them addressed

> * A clear understanding of how to interact with the Node.js project.

Reviewer 3: No . on other points
```suggestion
* A clear understanding of how to interact with the Node.js project
```

## Broad Deployment platform support

* Broad platform support for deployment OS and processor
  architectures

## Broad Desktop platform support

* Platform support that covers key desktop OS(windows, linux and OSX)

## Consistent and intuitive Error handling

* Error handling:
  * Traceability through tooling
  * Full async stack traces
  * System state reporting
  * etc.

## Runtime Diagnostic Tooling
* Diagnostics Tools
* Diagnostic signals
* Monitoring tools
* Observability

## Development time Diagnostic Tooling
* Debuggability
* Instrumentability

## Relevant APIs in core

> * APIs in key areas across the different types of applications, CLI, web, cloud native etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* APIs in key areas across the different types of applications, CLI, web, cloud native, etc.
```

> * APIs they can use directly from core without intermediary deps

Author: ```suggestion
* APIs which are complete enough that they can be used without additional dependencies
```

## Module/dependency info and management

> More information, and easier ways to gather information about modules they depend on.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More information and easy ways to gather information about modules they depend on.
```

## Ways to fund their work

> * Ways to fund their work

Author: ```suggestion
* Channels through which they can fund their work
```

## Ability to asses impact of changes they make
* Tools to evaluate impact of updates they make on other packages/applications

## Reasonable resource usage/performance

* Resonable resource usage (cpu, memory etc.)
* Performance

## Good security and CVE practices in the project

* Good management, reporting and updates for security issues
* Good process/handling of CVE's by the project

## Better CVE management in the ecosystem

* Better ways to deal with reported vulnerabilties

> * Better systems of keeping track of dependencies (updates, vulnerabilities, etc)

Author: ```suggestion
* Better systems of keeping track of dependencies (updates, vulnerabilities and their relevancy, etc)
```

## Good CI infrastructure and experience in the project

* Good user experience with CI
* Easier ways for collaborators to add/modify CI jobs
* Make it easier for collaborators to understand failures in the CI
* Reasonable build time 

## Supportive Collaborators and Environment in the project

* More internals guides

> Sympathetic collaborators

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Sympathetic collaborators
```

> * Supportive collaborators

Author: ```suggestion
Sympathetic collaborators
```

* Predictable release schedule to be able to plan upgrades
* Compatibility and stability when possible across releases to minimize upgrade work
* Stability across runtime versions

## Innovation at a consumable pace

* Right balance between "move fast" and stability
* Stability while still trying out new things
* Advance notice and time to prepare for deprecations

## Easy Installation

* Ability to easily install/consume Node.js in different environments
  * raw OS, containers, cloud platforms etc.

## Easy issue reporting, resolution and collaboration

* A good path to report issues to the project, and the ability to collaborate/contribute to
  the project to get them addressed
* A clear understanding of how to interact with the Node.js project.

## Broad Deployment platform support

* Broad platform support for deployment OS and processor
  architectures

## Broad Desktop platform support

* Platform support that covers key desktop OS(windows, linux and OSX)

## Consistent and intuitive Error handling

* Error handling:
  * Traceability through tooling
  * Full async stack traces
  * System state reporting
  * etc.

## Runtime Diagnostic Tooling
* Diagnostics Tools

> * More diagnostic signals

Author: ```suggestion
* Diagnostic signals
```

* Monitoring tools
* Observability

## Development time Diagnostic Tooling
* Debuggability
* Instrumentability

## Relevant APIs in core

> * WebSockets in core (still waiting...)

Author: ```
```
